---
layout: post
title:      "Oh Rails..."
date:       2019-06-26 05:43:12 +0000
permalink:  oh_rails
---


My first rails project was, how do I put this... a bit... daunting. I felt as if all of the knowledge I had just acquired was slipping through my fingers. I can almost compare it to my first CLI project, where I had absolutely no idea where to start. 

The momentum came when I finally decided on an idea. To me, this was the crux of my project. And because hindsight is 20/20, I now have a better idea of what project ideas work and what will take way more effort than the time alloted to complete the project.

The month of my project was the busiest time socially and work wise, so finding the time to balance my course work was a challenge.

## My project
I have a borderline obsession with trackers and planners. I recently started a new hobby of creating monthly habit trackers in a bullet journal to track my progress on things I wanted to become a habit. With this in mind, I tried my best to replicate this for my rails project.

Users could create their own account and start keeping track of their habits and how often they were completing the tasks each day.

## Where I ran into trouble...
1. Feeling intimidated by the fact that this project would test my knowledge and how I allowed it to define my abilities as a programmer.

2. Constantly mixing up the singular and plural use of my associations... 

3. Having all of the steps in the correct order to be able to create a new association

## My successes!
1. Building my routes, forms, views, helper methods and models without a problem.

2. More pieces would fall into place once a part of my project was working

3. Realizing that failure is not an option and that I have the knowledge to build a project from scratch and asking for help is ok!


I am still putting finishing touches on my project because in the end I want it to represent how I made the impossible, possible.

Holiday break... where you at??

-S
